
# Tom's Site Diary

A Site Diary is a critical document used on construction sites. It's a daily record of activities, events and occurrences on-site. This diary serves as a legal document and is essential for effective project management and accountability.

Tom's Site Diary features a List Page, a View Page and a Create Page. Each diary entry contains a Date, Description, Weather and Images.


## Demo

[Vercel Deployment](https://www.github.com/thomas-walters)


## Technical Choices

**Frontend:** ReactJs and NextJs

Personally comfortable using these and are both great choices for a modern, efficient and scalable web application.

**Styling:** TailwindCSS

I was originally going to use Material-UI given the time constraints, as it is what I am more comfortable using, however I decided to go with Tailwind after having used it recently and really enjoy the ease of use for mobile first design.

**Backend:** Supabase

My backend functionality is handled within Supabase, however I have included a sample endpoint using the NextJs Route Handler.

**Database:** Supabase

This was my first time using Supbase, so I decided to have a go at it after it was suggested. I found it super easy to setup and integrate into the project and thoroughly enjoyed using it.

**Image Upload**
UploadThing

Again, completly new to this.

**Deployment**
Vercel

Super easy to setup a deployment and most importantly, free!
## Running locally

To run this project locally, first create a ```.env.local``` file inside the project root and add the follow environment variables
```
NEXT_PUBLIC_SUPABASE_URL=https://lrnarnzqfkrrlseklyns.supabase.co
NEXT_PUBLIC_SUPABASE_ANON_KEY=eyJhbGciOiJIUzI1NiIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.eyJpc3MiOiJzdXBhYmFzZSIsInJlZiI6ImxybmFybnpxZmtycmxzZWtseW5zIiwicm9sZSI6ImFub24iLCJpYXQiOjE2OTk0MjE4MDIsImV4cCI6MjAxNDk5NzgwMn0.WUabzZoLS2p0-wyrGFwIYqKO-yoaEaN5jM90KxrYBZ8
UPLOADTHING_SECRET=sk_live_1163662a4ce8579b01d0fc7ca90ca955551623674b72c0fc1273bbcf624d5ae0
UPLOADTHING_APP_ID=r07d83phdk
```

Then, run the following commands in the terminal
```bash
  git clone https://github.com/iaincollins/nextjs-starter.git
  npm install
  npm run build
  npm run start
```


## Authors

- [@thomas-walters](https://www.github.com/thomas-walters)


## Approach

#### Planning
My first step was to read through the provided document and gather all of the requirements. This included things like required pages, required fields in forms, mobile optimisation etc.
#### Tech Stack Choice
Analysed which technologies would be best suited for the application, with my choices explained above.
#### Wireframing
Drafted some low-fidelity wireframes with pen and paper, showing the basics of each page. This was helpful for me considering the need for a responsive design given the mobile optimisation requirements of the application.
#### Database Schema
Planned what my database schema would look like. I decided to go with one 'diary_entries' table, which looks like so:
```
create table
  public.diary_entries (
    id bigint generated by default as identity,
    created_at timestamp with time zone not null default now(),
    date date not null,
    description text not null,
    weather text not null,
    images text[] null,
    constraint BuildPass Site Diary_pkey primary key (id)
  ) tablespace pg_default;
  ```

I could have also had another table for images that had each image link in its own record, and then linked to a diary entry via a Foreign Key, but instead decided to store links in an array in the one table for simplicity.

#### Frontend Architecture Choices
Decided to take advantage of the new App Router in Next.js 13. Works similarly to the previous Pages Router, but with some slight differences. I considered using a SPA type approach, but decided against it, as I thought the use of a dynamic URL to access a specific diary entry could be useful for users. I wanted to show my ability to create and use components, which I have done so with the DiaryList component displayed on the home page. Ideally more of the application would be broken down into components.

#### Frontend Development
Developed the frontend components and pages with a Mobile First Design approach, taking advantage of Tailwinds Breakpoint System which is already a mobile-first type system. Lots of the styling I used were tweaked components provided by the Tailwind documentation, purely to save time and as these already look quite good.

#### Backend/Database Integration
Happened alongside the development of the frontend. I started with the List view of the diary entries, followed by the single Details page and lastly the Add Entry page. I found connecting to Supbase quite straightforward and pleasant to use. UploadThing was also relatively simple, with setup clearly explained and demonstrated, but the docs were not as pleasant for some other things.

#### UploadThing / Image Uploads
This is probably what was most challenging, as it took me some time to find in the docs how to allow for multiple files to be uploaded. Once I had that figured out, it was relatively straightforward working alongside the provided documentation, and I really enjoyed the challenge.



## Future Improvements and Completion
- Better user feedback e.g. Snackbars, loading indicators etc.
- Add Entry as a Modal instead of seperatepage
- Pagination for the Diary Entries List endpoint and UI
- Sorting/Filtering for the List page
- Cleanup my Tailwind! Largely because I am unfamiliar and time constraints, I feel like my Tailwind code is a bit all over the place. Could definitely be cleaned up with classes. There are also some styling inconsistencies throughout the application that I'd like to clean up, and this would only help.
- On the Add entry page, make image uploads only happens when Submit is clicked, currently happens after files have been selected. This is potentially an issue if users upload images and then don't submit a diary entry, these images have now been uploaded and aren't being used
- Could possibly include some kind of caching for the diary entries so the endpoint does not have to be called every time the user navigates to a single entry and back to the main page